Added TLS certificates documentation (#264)
Mirantis/mke-docs: content/docs/configuration/tls-certificates.md

---
title: TLS certificates
weight: 10
---

To ensure all communications between clients and MKE are encrypted, all MKE
services are exposed using HTTPS. By default, this is done using self-signed
TLS certificates that are not trusted by client tools such as web browsers.
Thus, when you try to access MKE, your browser warns that it does not trust MKE
or that MKE has an invalid certificate.

You can configure MKE to use your own TLS certificates. As a result, your
browser and other client tools will trust your MKE installation.

Mirantis recommends that you make this change outside of peak business hours.

> Your applications will continue to run normally, but existing MKE client
> certificates will become invalid, and thus users will have to download new
> certificates to access MKE from the CLI.

Reviewer: The second part of this statement is no longer applicable. I suggest we rewrite it to something like this

```suggestion
Your applications will continue to run normally. However, the Ingress Controller will restart, and if you use it to expose your applications to the outside world, they may be unavailable for a short time.
```

   **Admin Settings** > **Certificates**.

3. Upload your certificates and keys based on the following table.

    {{< callout type="info" >}}
    All keys and certificates must be uploaded in PEM format.
    {{< /callout >}}
    
    | Type               | Description   |
    |--------------------|---------------|
    | Private key        | The unencrypted private key for MKE. This key must correspond to the public key used in the server certificate. This key does not use a password.<br/><br/>Click **Upload Key** to upload a PEM file.                                                       |
    | Server certificate | The MKE public key certificate, which establishes a chain of trust up to the root CA certificate. It is followed by the certificates of any intermediate certificate authorities.<br/><br/>Click **Upload Certificate** to upload a PEM file.               |
    | CA certificate     | The public key certificate of the root certificate authority that issued the MKE server certificate. If you do not have a CA certificate, use the top-most intermediate certificate instead.<br/><br/>Click **Upload CA Certificate** to upload a PEM file. |

4. Click **Save**.

> After replacing the TLS certificates, users cannot authenticate with their old
> client certificate bundles. Instruct users to access the MKE web UI and
> download new client certificate bundles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Client bundles are not implemented yet

## Set TLS certificate using CLI

To set up the certificate with commandline and `mkectl`:

1. Create a new TLS certificate and key signed by a trusted CA.

   It must include:
   - the external address
   - the IP addresses of all manager nodes in the list of allowed hosts

>    To get the list of all required hosts, run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   To get the list of all required hosts, run the following command from the folder where your config file is located:
```

   ```bash
   HOSTS=$(yq '[(.spec.apiServer.externalAddress, .spec.hosts.[] | select(.role == "controller+worker") | .ssh.address)] | join(" ")' <MKE CONFIGURATION FILE NAME>)
   echo $HOSTS

>    ```

Reviewer: these requirements also apply to the "Server Certificate" from the UI table above, so we should either repeat it there or add a note that would apply to both, UI and CLI, sections

2. Encode certificate material:

   ```bash
   CA_CERT=$(cat ca.pem | base64 -b0)
   SERVER_CERT=$(cat cert.pem | base64 -b0)
   SERVER_KEY=$(cat key.pem | base64 -b0)
   ```

>    If you are using Linux, use `base64 -w0` instead.

Reviewer: hmm, I know I wrote it, but as time goes by, I'm gaining more wisdom, and now I think we should provide two sets of commands, e.g.

For MacOS users:
```bash
   CA_CERT=$(cat ca.pem | base64 -b0)
   SERVER_CERT=$(cat cert.pem | base64 -b0)
   SERVER_KEY=$(cat key.pem | base64 -b0)
```

For Linux users:
```bash
   CA_CERT=$(cat ca.pem | base64 -w0)
   SERVER_CERT=$(cat cert.pem | base64 -w0)
   SERVER_KEY=$(cat key.pem | base64 -w0)
```

3. Create a secret with the new certificate material:

   ```bash
   cat <<EOF | envsubst '$CA_CERT $SERVER_CERT $SERVER_KEY' | kubectl apply -f -
   apiVersion: v1
   kind: Secret
   metadata:
     name: <USER-PROVIDED-INGRESS-CERT>  # name can be anything
     namespace: mke  # namespace MUST be mke
   data:
     ca.crt: $CA_CERT
     tls.crt: $SERVER_CERT
     tls.key: $SERVER_KEY
   EOF
   ```

> 
> 4. In the configuration, set the `defaultSslCertificate` of the Ingress
>    Controller to the secret name from a previous step.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

4. In the configuration, set the `defaultSslCertificate` of the Ingress
   Controller to the previously established secret name.

```

   ```bash
   yq -i '.spec.ingressController.extraArgs.defaultSslCertificate = "mke/<USER-PROVIDED-INGRESS-CERT>"' <MKE CONFIGURATION FILE NAME>
   ```

>    Example Ingress Controller section in the MKE configuration file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Example MKE configuration file `ingressController` section:
```

---
title: TLS certificates
weight: 10
---

To ensure all communications between clients and MKE are encrypted, all MKE
services are exposed using HTTPS. By default, this is done using self-signed
TLS certificates that are not trusted by client tools such as web browsers.
Thus, when you try to access MKE, your browser warns that it does not trust MKE
or that MKE has an invalid certificate.

You can configure MKE to use your own TLS certificates. As a result, your
browser and other client tools will trust your MKE installation.

Mirantis recommends that you make this change outside of peak business hours.
Your applications will continue to run normally. However, the Ingress
Controller will restart, and applications exposed through it may experience a
short period of unavailability.

> ## Use the MKE web UI to align your TLS certificates and keys

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Use the MKE web UI to align TLS artifacts

To configure MKE with the MKE web UI to use your own TLS certificates and keys:
```

Thus, when you try to access MKE, your browser warns that it does not trust MKE
or that MKE has an invalid certificate.

You can configure MKE to use your own TLS certificates. As a result, your
browser and other client tools will trust your MKE installation.

Mirantis recommends that you make this change outside of peak business hours.
Your applications will continue to run normally. However, the Ingress
Controller will restart, and applications exposed through it may experience a
short period of unavailability.

## Use the MKE web UI to align TLS artifacts

To configure MKE with the MKE web UI to use your own TLS certificates and keys:

1. Log in to the MKE web UI as an administrator.

2. In the left-side navigation panel, navigate to **Admin Settings** > **Certificates**.

3. Upload your certificates and keys.

    {{< callout type="info" >}}
    All keys and certificates must be uploaded in PEM format, and the
    certificates must include:
    - external IP address
    - IP addresses for all manager nodes in the list of allowed hosts

    To obtain the list of all required hosts, run the following command from the
    directory containing your configuration file:

    ```bash

>     HOSTS=$(yq '[(.spec.apiServer.externalAddress, .spec.hosts.[] | select(.role == "controller+worker") | .ssh.address)] | join(" ")' <MKE CONFIGURATION FILE NAME>)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    HOSTS=$(yq '[(.spec.apiServer.externalAddress, .spec.hosts.[] | select(.role == "controller+worker") | .ssh.address)] | join(" ")' <mke-configuration-file-name>.yaml)
```

    echo $HOSTS
    ```

>     {{< /callout >}}

Reviewer 2: @byDimasik , is the MKE configuration file cited in this command always going to be a YAML file? If so, @MagdaDziadosz, please change `<MKE CONFIGURATION FILE NAME>` to` <mke-configuration-file-name>.yaml` (otherwise, please change it to `<mke-configuration-file-name>`.

Also, for me there is a dissonance between 'allowed hosts' and 'required hosts'. My gut is telling me that the second reference should just read "To obtain the list of hosts, run the....etc." If that is accurate, @MagdaDziadosz, please indent "To obtain..." and the accompanying code-block to align under the bullet.

Reviewer: @KoryKessel-Mirantis @MagdaDziadosz 
>  is the MKE configuration file cited in this command always going to be a YAML file?

yes. Also, if it's named exactly `mke4.yaml`, `mkectl` will find it automatically, so you can just run
```sh
mkectl apply
``` 

from the folder where the file is located. If the name is any different, users must explicitly specify it with `-f` flag

```
mkectl apply -f irenameditfornogoodreason.yaml
```

So, I think in our docs we could consider using `mke4.yaml` everywhere, and mention once that if it's renamed, it's a tiny bit more typing when applying it. This way we may convince our customers to stick with the good default name.

> Also, for me there is a dissonance between 'allowed hosts' and 'required hosts'. 

Certificates have a list of _allowed_ hosts called SANs (subject alternative names), and MKE 4 _requires_ to have manager IPs in that list. So, I'd suggest we drop the second part from here

> IP addresses for all manager nodes in the list of allowed hosts

to make it just

> IP addresses for all manager nodes

And rephrase the intro:

> All keys and certificates must be uploaded in PEM format, and the
    certificates must include the following SANs:

Author: I checked other topics, and we use `mke4.yaml` without referencing any other possible name for the config file, so I'll just use it in the intro and commands.

    | Server certificate | The MKE public key certificate, which establishes a chain of trust up to the root CA certificate. It is followed by the certificates of any intermediate certificate authorities.<br/><br/>Click **Upload Certificate** to upload a PEM file.               |
    | CA certificate     | The public key certificate of the root certificate authority that issued the MKE server certificate. If you do not have a CA certificate, use the top-most intermediate certificate instead.<br/><br/>Click **Upload CA Certificate** to upload a PEM file. |

4. Click **Save**.

## Use the CLI to align TLS artifacts

To configure MKE with the CLI to use your own TLS certificates and keys:

1. Create a new TLS certificate and key signed by a trusted CA. These must include:
   - external IP address
   - IP addresses for all manager nodes in the list of allowed hosts

   To obtain the list of all required hosts, run the following command from the
   directory containing your configuration file:

   ```bash
   HOSTS=$(yq '[(.spec.apiServer.externalAddress, .spec.hosts.[] | select(.role == "controller+worker") | .ssh.address)] | join(" ")' <MKE CONFIGURATION FILE NAME>)
   echo $HOSTS

>    ```

Reviewer 2: Same comment as above....

@byDimasik , is the MKE configuration file cited in this command always going to be a YAML file? If so, @MagdaDziadosz, please change <MKE CONFIGURATION FILE NAME> to <mke-configuration-file-name>.yaml (otherwise, please change it to <mke-configuration-file-name>.

Also, for me there is a dissonance between 'allowed hosts' and 'required hosts'. My gut is telling me that the second reference should just read "To obtain the list of hosts, run the....etc." If that is accurate, @MagdaDziadosz, please indent "To obtain..." and the accompanying code-block to align under the bullet.

---
title: TLS certificates
weight: 10
---

To ensure all communications between clients and MKE are encrypted, all MKE
services are exposed using HTTPS. By default, this is done using self-signed
TLS certificates that are not trusted by client tools such as web browsers.
Thus, when you try to access MKE, your browser warns that it does not trust MKE
or that MKE has an invalid certificate.

You can configure MKE to use your own TLS certificates. As a result, your
browser and other client tools will trust your MKE installation.

Mirantis recommends that you make this change outside of peak business hours.
Your applications will continue to run normally. However, the Ingress
Controller will restart, and applications exposed through it may experience a
short period of unavailability.

## Use the MKE web UI to align TLS artifacts

To configure MKE with the MKE web UI to use your own TLS certificates and keys:

1. Log in to the MKE web UI as an administrator.

> 2. In the left-side navigation panel, navigate to your **Username** >
>    **Admin Settings** > **Certificates**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. In the left-side navigation panel, navigate to **Admin Settings** > **Certificates**.
```

> 3. Upload your certificates and keys based on the following table.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Upload your certificates and keys.
```

Reviewer 2: The "based on the following table" clause is problemantic here because it does not actually _follow_. In the source MKE 3.x content this is not a problem (not a big one, anyway) because the directive is very small, which is not the case here. In my opinion, the user does not need the clause, anyway, so I suggest we jettison it.

    {{< callout type="info" >}}
    All keys and certificates must be uploaded in PEM format, and the
    certificates must include the following SANs:
    - external IP address
    - IP addresses for all manager nodes

      To obtain the list of all required hosts, run the following command from

>       the directory containing the `mke4.yaml` file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      the directory that contains the `mke4.yaml` file:
```

    | Server certificate | The MKE public key certificate, which establishes a chain of trust up to the root CA certificate. It is followed by the certificates of any intermediate certificate authorities.<br/><br/>Click **Upload Certificate** to upload a PEM file.               |
    | CA certificate     | The public key certificate of the root certificate authority that issued the MKE server certificate. If you do not have a CA certificate, use the top-most intermediate certificate instead.<br/><br/>Click **Upload CA Certificate** to upload a PEM file. |

4. Click **Save**.

## Use the CLI to align TLS artifacts

To configure MKE with the CLI to use your own TLS certificates and keys:

1. All keys and certificates must be uploaded in PEM format, and the
   certificates must include the following SANs:
   - external IP address
   - IP addresses for all manager nodes

     To obtain the list of all required hosts, run the following command from

>      the directory containing the `mke4.yaml` file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     the directory that contains the `mke4.yaml` file:
```
